Koyana

Dam vs Water Treatment Plant

Java 8 Streams
1) What Are Streams?
Streams can be defined as a sequences of elements from a source which support
    data processing operations. You can treat streams as operations on data.

2) Why Streams?
   Almost every Java application use Collections API to store and process the data.
   Despite being the most used Java API, it is not easy to write the code for even
   some common data processing operations like filtering, finding, matching, sorting,
   mapping etc using Collections API . So, there needed Next-Gen API to process the
   data. So Java API designers have come with mJava 8 Streams API to write more
   complex data processing operations with much of ease.
3) Characteristics Of Java 8 Streams
3.1) Streams are not the data structures
     Streams doesn’t store the data. You can’t add or remove elements from streams.
     Hence, they are not the data structures. They are the just operations on data.

3.2) Stream Consumes a data source
     Stream consumes a source, performs operations on it and produces the result.
     Source may be a collection or an array or an I/O resource.
     Remember, stream doesn’t modify the source.


3.3) Intermediate And Terminal Operations
    Most of the stream operations return another new stream and they can be chained
    together to form a pipeline of operations.

The operations which return stream themselves are called intermediate operations.
    For example – filter(), distinct(), sorted() etc.

The operations which return other than stream are called terminal operations.
    count(). min(), max() are some terminal operations.

3.4) Pipeline Of Operations
   A pipeline of operations consists of three things – a source, one or more
   intermediate operations and a terminal operation. Pipe-lining of operations
   let you to write database-like queries on a data source. In the below example,
   int array is the source, filter() and distinct() are intermediate operations
   and forEach() is a terminal operation.

IntStream.of(new int[] {4, 7, 1, 8, 3, 9, 7}).
         filter((int i) -> i > 5).distinct().
         forEach(System.out::println);
3.5) Internal Iteration
  Collections need to be iterated explicitly. i.e you have to write the code to
  iterate over collections. But, all stream operations do the iteration
  internally behind the scene for you. You need not to worry about iteration
  at all while writing the code using Java 8 Streams API.

3.6) Parallel Execution
  To gain the performance while processing the large amount of data, you have to
  process it in parallel and use multi core architectures. Java 8 Streams can be
  processed in parallel without writing any multi threaded code. For example, to
  process the collections in parallel, you just use parallelStream() method
  instead of stream() method.

List<String> names = new ArrayList<>();
  names.add("David");
  names.add("Johnson");
  names.add("Samontika");
  names.add("Brijesh");
  names.add("John");

//Normal Execution

names.stream().
filter((String name) -> name.length() > 5).
skip(2).forEach(System.out::println);

//Parallel Execution
   names.parallelStream().
   filter((String name) -> name.length() > 5).
   skip(2).forEach(System.out::println);
3.7) Streams are lazily populated
    All elements of a stream are not populated at a time. They are lazily
    populated as per demand because intermediate operations are not
    evaluated until terminal operation is invoked.

3.8) Streams are traversable only once
    You can’t traverse the streams more than once just like iterators.
    If you traverse the stream first time, it is said to be consumed.

List<String> nameList = Arrays.asList("Dinesh", "Ross", "Kagiso", "Steyn");
    Stream<String> stream = nameList.stream();
    stream.forEach(System.out::println);
    stream.forEach(System.out::println);
//Error : stream has already been operated upon or closed

3.9) Short Circuiting Operations
  Short circuiting operations are the operations which don’t need the whole stream
  to be processed to produce a result. For example – findFirst(), findAny(), limit() etc.

4) java.util.stream.Stream
  java.util.stream.Stream interface is the center of Java 8 Streams API. This
  interface contains all the stream operations. Below table shows
  frequently used Stream methods with description.


Java 8 Streams

Q.1 SQL injection and how to avoid it?
Q2. XSS/CSRF attack and how to avoid it ?
